Hi everyone.
In programming, data type is an important concept.
Variables can store data of different types and different types can do different things.
Python has the following data type built in by default in this categories.
Text type is an str numeric types like int float, complex sequence types like list, tuple, range
mapping type, dictionary set, types set, and frozenset.
Here what is the difference between set and Frozenset set?
It can be modified by adding or removing some element.
Frozenset is immutable and cannot be changed after creation.
Boolean type.
Binary type and known type.
To get the data type, we use the function type.
In Python, the data type is set when you assign a value to a variable.
Because like we said, Python is a dynamically programming language x take the value hello world.
That mean x is the type S tier x, take the value 20 x is an int, and there are a lot of examples.
X is a dictionary.
Here X is a set.
Here x takes the value true.
That's mean x is a boolean.
In some of these variables, we need to require to use a constructor to define the variable like byte
array or memory view.
But in the other case like str int float complex list, we can assign.
The data type is set when you assign a value to a variable.
But also we can use a constructor like in the fourth section.
If you want to specify the data type, you can use the following constructor function.
Functions.
Here, to define an str, we use the constructor.
STR str hello world constructor int for int float complex list tuple range.
And there are a lot of examples.
Let's try some of these examples.
I go to the PyCharm.
The section Python Data types.
We have a lot of examples here x take hello world and we print the type of x.
It will be s tier x.
Take the value 20 and the type it will be class int.
Let's execute the code.
Here for example x take apple banana cherry and the type.
It will be a set.
It will be a tuple.
This is the dictionary.
And this is the set.
Define it with curly bracket.
Cherry.
Banana.
Apple.
True.
It's a boolean.
And also we can use constructor to define our variable like str int float and float.
We have a lot of examples.